[Music]
hey how's it going Dave 2d here so when
Samsung announced the S 9 and the S 9
plus one of the things that they talked
about really briefly in their keynote
was the inclusion of a new heart sensor
and that one was really interesting to
me because it was the first heart sensor
was the first phone that could
supposedly measure blood pressure with
just a touch which is pretty impressive
now I mentioned this briefly before in
another video and people are like who
cares you know Samsung phones have had
hard sensors forever this is new the old
ones could measure heart rate which is
basically how fast your heart beats in a
minute which is cool but this measures
blood pressure which is the I guess the
amount of pressure that your blood
exerts on your the walls of your blood
vessels it's it's a very complex thing
to measure like you can't just measure
it traditionally you need equipment to
do it you need a cuff that inflates and
then you need a stethoscope to hear
what's going on inside there they have
equipment to like speed it up but it's
not a OneTouch process the other reason
why I find it interesting is that okay
it's actually the more important reason
is that blood pressure is one of the
leading risk factors when it comes to
cardiovascular disease and
cardiovascular disease is the number one
leading cause of death globally it's
literally like the number one thing that
kills people in the world cardiovascular
disease and if you have a device like a
phone that you can hold in your hand
that can measure blood pressure like
that that could change the world that
could literally save lives so I wanted
to see what this thing could do I wanted
to see if this thing was accurate I want
to see if the sensor worked like I
thought it would work and yeah there's
some good things there's some bad things
but we're just gonna going to go through
real quickly so to make this whole thing
work you need to get an app it's
specific to the s 9 the s 9 plastic it
doesn't work on other phones it's called
my BP lab and it's made in conjunction
with Samsung it's through some
University and it's the only app that
currently uses the blood pressure sensor
now this may change in the future but as
of today in the middle of March
that's the only way they can use this
blood pressure sensor on the s9 and the
s9 plus okay so when you set this thing
up the first thing you'll notice is that
this is a research study and the data
that this app measures and collects is
used to kind of see the relationship
between stress and health it's an
interesting study but I mean I
here just for the blood pressure
measurement that's all I really care
about okay so you have to sign a whole
bunch of consent things but it's pretty
easy to get it up and running now the
first time you use this it asks you to
do a base measurement for your blood
pressure and that's where things get a
little bit weird the app doesn't tell
you an actual number like you don't know
your blood pressure value you just know
that that's your base measurement and
any subsequent measurement that you do
with the app it just tells you if it's
gone up or down as a percentage it never
actually gives you a number now there is
a way to get a number into the system
you have to calibrate it using external
hardware so you need a blood pressure
cuff or a blood pressure machine of some
sort or you can go to your physician and
get it done but you can in put an actual
known measurement for your base blood
pressure so that the app knows what that
base value is so every time you romesha
it if it goes up or down it'll kind of
just calculate what the difference is
and just give you the new updated value
so the app doesn't actually measure
blood pressure it just kind of measures
the change in blood pressure so if you
have like a base value that the app
knows it can give you a number but if
you don't you don't have an actual
measurement so the sensor uses ppg to
try to measure the blood pressure it's
basically an optical measurement the
sensor has a couple of LEDs and it
measures the way that the light reflects
off of your fingertip when it's covering
the sensor to obtain a value so I
calibrated this thing to my blood
pressure but when I use the app on my
family members and friends some of them
who I know have drastically different
blood pressures from me the app and the
sensor just weren't picking up proper
differences now it is possible or even
very likely that the app kind of caters
to the user like because it's calibrated
to me it wouldn't work on other people I
think that's very likely but I did test
this thing out in a different way so
what I did was I just exercise and
exercis does elevate blood pressure a
bit and the app does pick up that
increase in blood pressure but it
doesn't seem to be as accurate as a
blood pressure cuff now it could be a
new limitation with the actual sensor
like maybe it's not designed to measure
elevated blood pressure from exercise
because that's like not how you want to
measure blood pressure normally but I
mean that's just that's the only way
that I can really test or pretend to
test its accuracy now there are other
limitations one I noticed that cold
fingers don't work very well dry fingers
as well like I have can some dry hands
from the winter and just like it doesn't
always work reliably and the app itself
mentions that certain skinned pig
patience may not work but I think the
big limitation comes from the sensor
itself or at least the algorithm that
the sensor is using to calculate blood
pressure so I think it's weird that it
doesn't measure blood pressure but it
did a little research on just Hull
technology and that seems to be an issue
with the tech look there's a feasibility
study on this stuff and they're saying
that you could measure the relative
variation of blood pressure but they
couldn't find the absolute pressure
value like I'm not even comfortable
saying that this thing can measure blood
pressure it can measure the change in
blood pressure but it can't actually
measure your blood pressure at least not
with the current iteration of this app
now I think this app and this hardware
and this whole thing can get way better
and I think that may be why Samsung is
doing this partnership with University
like maybe they're gonna be taking the
data from like all the people that have
been using this app and using it to
improve the sensor or the algorithm that
is used in this sensor and like that
could just make it better over time but
right now the app and the sensor feel
kind of mediocre to me so the idea of a
phone that you could use to check your
blood pressure intermittently is awesome
and I think for some very very rare
cases it could technically save a life
even in its current iteration like if
you were someone that didn't know
anything about your blood pressure and
you started using this thing and you
notice that it was elevated you could
kind of do something to monitor or
manage that that's cool but for the vast
majority of people that are interested
in this phone like I would not consider
the blood pressure monitor a substantial
feature at least not enough to warrant
the purchase of this phone because of
that feature okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs we liked it subs you
loved it see you guys next time
[Music]